OK so I'm making good progress on our clone.
So far we've pretty much covered the top bar the top.
So our challenge in this video is going to be to recreate the dark and lighter red section of the head.
Here now you can see that we've got the red and darker red bars extend right to the edge of the screen
whereas the content has the same width as before.
So we're going to need an outer div which has a width of the whole screen and then in a div which has
a with the same as the top bar that we created up there.
So it should be pretty straightforward
definitely worth clearing our flights to make sure that everything appears below the top here.
So let's have a
special Dave to clear everything.
We're probably going to be using that more than once.
So I'll create it as a class and we just want to clear both lights.
Not that we've got any right flights at the moment.
And then I'm going to call this the menu bar for lack of a better phrase say I'm going to start with
an idea of menu bar container.
So this is going to be the full width div for this
lights have red background.
So let's just try and get our red color first off.
That looks good.
And then what did I call it Menu Bar container.
OK.
So you want a background color
of that and the width of 100 percent.
Let's have a look what we can do at the height as well.
Let's try 100 pixels to start off that's better.
OK.
So we're looking pretty good already in terms of heights.
I think that's a little bit high for just that top part.
So let's go for something like 70 pixels great then we're going to need our top bar menu bar Sorry Dave
to go within that
and that's going to be pretty similar but we want it it
and to have a with the same as the top or at the top.
Let's go right back.
Maybe we had a thousand pixels and a margin of 0.
Water which should
give us a laugh that we want and make it nice and scented as well.
So in terms of content we just want the word news that
so I think I'm going to use an H one for this.
I would get it so the text is then some strange padding coming in.
I would definitely need a little bit of styling as well.
Now you're going to have one each one on our page so we don't need to give it a class or an ID.
I think we definitely want to take away any padding or margins or less set padding and margins to zero.
For now we might want to put some back in again.
We definitely wanted to be white and I think we wanted to be a little bit larger than it is now.
So let's try a font size of 40 pixels.
See how that looks.
OK.
I'm pretty happy with that.
I think we actually don't want to be bold.
So let's set the font weight to be normal.
That's looking better.
It's not quite the same font but it's close enough.
But we do want a little bit of a margin at the top I think.
So we'll set margin top B it's too much maybe 10 pixels that's Have a look now that's moved down the
whole bar which is not what we want.
So let's switch that to a padding at the top that's better.
OK.
That's pretty good.
Pretty close to what we've got there.
And the real thing.
Fantastic.
So now we just need to have our find local news link and that image then I wonder if I can get it now.
Not easily.
OK.
Say while I'm here Aldie my screen shotting trick.
And then it's jump over and copy that image.
I'll call it a point.
That's probably a better name for it but that will spit into our images.
Felda
OK.
So we want a little box there and a link inside with our image to the right of it.
So I think I use a div for that
after news but this is going to be inside Manuva.
Dave ID equals.
And let's remind ourselves what it actually says.
Find local news
so let's call this local news
and the text before I forget it.
It's going to be find local news.
Let me just check the capitalization.
All lower text will ok say.
I mean at the beginning
and then we're going to want our MH
and I call that point to
OK.
A quick look and see what that looks like with nice styling it still needs a bit of work.
All right.
No problem.
We can handle this.
So first off we need to get that H1 two flight left.
In fact we could possibly do without that.
Because what we're going to do now is get our day off which was cooled local dash news
and we'll get that to flight right.
There it is.
So we didn't actually need this flight left to cause any problems but let's get rid of it.
We get to keep the code simple.
So I'm actually going to just get rid of the flight right temporarily so that I can see what I'm working
with here.
I have to make the browser window bigger and smaller every time.
In terms of we want it want quite large and centered with a small gray box around it.
Let's have color
white.
We do want it to be a link as well.
So I stress.
I'll just leave it blank.
In terms of its destination to write about work is
that then.
Now that's good but it hasn't made our link white.
And we're going to access that by using local news and then say that will then style all the links within
local news.
So if we now have a look at that we didn't actually need that style and there we go.
So it is white.
I'm just going to temporarily pull back my flight left into the H-1 so that I can see it all that make
it a lot easier to develop.
I can't.
We want to get rid of that underlying text decoration.
None that we want to bring it back in on Hulver.
Local news.
I.
And then they have a pseudo class as we've seen before.
Bring back the underline.
So let's have a look at that lovely right we need it a little bit bigger.
So let's try font size of 15 pixels small
25 pixels.
Well don't forget pixels.
Every guy a little big.
Maybe I was right all along with my 15.
That is definitely too small.
Somewhere in between 20.
That looks about right.
All right.
Now the link is definitely a little bit low down.
So let's use a bit of positioning to me it back up again.
So relative positioning and then we'll set the top see let's try out minus 20 pixels that will move
it upwards.
OK that looks pretty good.
Let's try maybe 17.
I like that that looks more centered.
William Now let's style the image.
Just need to make that a bit smaller really and possibly change the position.
We could give the image optical ID but slightly more fancy would be to take our local Dasch news and
then style all the images within it.
And there's only one.
So that saves us having to create another ID for our pointer then.
So let's change the height to be let's try 20 pixels.
It's a little small.
Ah this is affected our link as well.
So we probably won't need our relative positioning there.
That's interesting.
So Alice is 80 pixels instead still a little small maybe 40.
OK.
Brilliant So I think that's about the right size find local news is now a little bit out of whack.
Say let's move it down a touch.
Not that much.
We want it to be roughly centered with the image
so how about that.
And then we want a box round the local news
should be fine.
See if I can get that color just right.
Finding my color picker to work that well at the moment but let's see what we can do.
There's the dark red
that I think is the lighter red let's give it a guy.
So let's set the local news Dave to have a border of one pixel color so that
OK that's about the right color I think.
But it's definitely extended further than we'd want Ben.
Let's have a look and find out why.
I think it's because we need to introduce our float.
So that's now flight.
Let's see if we can get away with floating left temporarily.
We'll want to set a fixed with as well so let's go for something like 200 pixels OK so that now gets
the board of roughly how we want it the width is a little bit wide.
So let's go for 180 pixels.
Great.
I think we need a little bit of padding on the left and right and maybe a touch on the top to bring
it down a little as well.
Say let's go for five pixels at the top
and then five pixels on the right.
That's truly zero on the bottom.
See what effects that has.
And then five pixels on the left as well.
OK I'm liking that.
Maybe a touch more on the left
10 pixels.
Excellent.
That looks good.
Now we need to do is bring it down a little so we'll do that with a margin say at the top let's try
five pixels again and then we're going to want a margin right of let's try around 10 pixels and we're
not actually interested.
In bottom left margins because we're going to float it C a right
k let's have a look.
There it is fantastic.
That's not identical to that but it's pretty close.
I think we can make the text a little bigger and be nice to align the bottom of the text with the bottom
of that image there as well as it is here.
So let's just do a little bit of playing around with that
if we can.
Bill Fletcher left again so that we can see it more clearly that we say we want the font size to be
maybe 60 pixels not too much that's the wrong one.
Font size lets try that.
It's a little large
26.
OK.
I think that looks about right.
They need to increase the width 190 It's now right.
Two hundred still to narrow and to 10 still too narrow to 20.
Excellent.
That's better.
Now that I can see it there I think I want it even bigger.
Let's say for 30 and 40
250.
There we go.
OK.
So that looks good.
Maybe we don't need to move it up for any more let's have a look.
Maybe it will position itself.
No it's still too low down.
Without that repositioning so let's try moving it up.
Five pixels.
Little bit more pixels maybe every day.
Excellence.
I like that so let's just change the flight from left to right.
I think that looks pretty good.
One thing that you might have noticed that we're lacking though is this gray bar here which adds a nice
border between the top or as we're calling it and the top bit of the menu bar here.
So let's put that in and we also need to make sure our lines line up with that.
So this is where it comes in has to be pretty pixel perfect so we can use our local news container I
think for this or a menubar contain a story and we'll give it a border top of one it's solid.
And we definitely have that color already because we used it on the left of the top bar menus with the
order left.
There we go.
That's what we want.
So let's pop it there.
Notice it doesn't actually matter what order we put these three in.
You can put the weight on the type and the color in any order you like and it'll still work it out.
Great.
So now the bar is that which looks really nice.
But those things aren't quite in contact with it.
So let's figure out why that is.
First thing to try might be to decrease the height of the top boss likely to move everything up.
That's Negat let's keep that 40
let's just try setting the margin and padding to 0 9.
That's not good either.
So I suspect that it's something to do with one of these Dave's being taller than the rest and the only
one that doesn't have a left margin is this bell one because that's because the image is the left margin.
So let's just test out our theory by removing the Beldi of temporarily.
Now that moves everything up beautifully.
OK.
So the Belyaev is definitely our problem.
Let's have a look.
Probably that's a little bit too tall.
OK we've got our margin here.
So nine pixels eight pixels.
All right so let's try changing the bottom margin to zero.
And we'll keep the left margin at 8 pixels.
So if that does the job.
There we go.
Very nice.
So now everything links up beautifully and things are really starting to say to take shape.
Great.
So now let's have a look at this menu bar down here.
So that's what we're trying to create next.
You can see first off that it's got a different read see the bar above.
So let's just get that read copy to the clipboard.
And
creates a new divs for us.
So we're now outside the menu bar
I'm actually going to call this very originally menu bar to and then add some styles for menu botty.
And the main one is that we want the background color.
It's to be that we also want to have a width of 100 percent and that's actually not many but it's many
about the container just like we had before.
So we'll set that to be many botty container.
And then within that we're going to have to ID and you bá to and this is where our menu will be contained.
And all will need for that is a width of a thousand pixels and a margin as we've seen before of 0 and
water that will give it a margin 0 or top and bottom but auto left and right which would make it nicely
centered for us and let's give it a high as well.
So let's try something like 80 pixels.
All right.
Let's take a look.
Aha.
So everything's good except it's not quite positioned where we wanted it.
Why is that.
It's because we haven't broken our flights.
So before that let's add a div with a glass of clear and that should clear up our flights and meet it
down underneath where it belongs.
So now we're going to run a string of links all of which are going to be styled the same.
So I'll start with the first couple home and UK and once we've got those right we should just be able
to add the others in to run them pretty big white and we want to have this border there as well.
So let's have and I again will have a blank ref and this will be home and then the same for the next
link which I've forgotten already.
UK
that we get.
So let's see what they look like without any styling.
All right.
Great.
So again we can style these using menu bar too.
And then I add that will style all of the links within menu bar to the same set the color to white first.
And we want know underline the text decoration.
None.
We want a bit of a margin at the top
let's try five picks and we want some padding left and right as well.
So you don't need any padding top and bottom but let's give it 10 pixels padding on the left and right.
And finally let's add our border.
Right.
Going to be one piece solid.
And I think it's the same color.
As the border around we can't see anymore find local news there or at least it's close enough.
So let's use the same water as we did for local news which was this one maybe 4 5 4 5
OK.
Let's take a look.
That's not bad.
I think they could do with being slightly bigger and my margin top obviously hasn't worked out there.
So I'm going to use font size Let's try 14 pixels and let's use positioning to shift them down a bit
OK.
That's actually made them smaller straight 18 pixels.
OK I think that's about the right size.
And I think we can make the menu bar itself a little bit bigger and then move them down a little bit
more.
I like that.
Maybe a teensy bit less OK.
Great.
So I'm pretty happy with that.
Something slightly strange going on with the padding here I think.
But let's add a few more and it might become clearer.
What parish you raise.
So we've got some if I can copy and paste
k.
No problem.
Just the main
I just had a few blank
links them.
So we've got World
Business
Politics
science health education
entertainment and arts
video and audio and more.
OK.
Let's take a look at the more triangle later on.
So this is good.
We have a problem with our font size so let's make that font a little bit smaller.
Easy enough
try 16 still a little bit too big.
Try 14.
OK that's about right.
And then let's move them down a little
keep them sends it us white
one pixel Yes I think grepped.
Now I'm going to bring in the underline on Hava
which I know is not quite the same
as what the BBC does but it'll be close enough.
We.
We need javascript's to get this to appear anyway.
All right.
So what we need to really do now is add the down.
And of course we want to get rid of this margin on the more link.
So let's do both of those.
First off
screen and remember you can use the clip at all if you're on Windows that will command shift 4 if you're
on Mac and there it is.
So I'm going to cool it down hour and then copy it and put it in the images folder.
As before.
Brilliant.
So let's
edit that.
First off we're going to need to get rid of the border on the final more link.
So let's get that a special class which I'll call no border
and then
we can have a
border class
which has border none.
So let's just have a look see if that's worked for us.
It hasn't that allows us to use a special trick.
Of exclamation mark.
And important.
And let's just make sure you can see that that's worked.
So that's a really handy little trick that you can use when you've got to potentially ashing CSSA instructions.
So here we're telling every menu bar to item to have a border on the right.
And here we're telling everything with a class of no border to have no border.
So how does the browser know which one to do if you want to be completely clear on it.
Then you use exclamation mark and important and it will make sure that this one has a priority over
anything which is not important as a handy little trick.
OK.
That's great.
And so all that remains then for this bar is to add in our image
images and then down our
every day right.
A little bit too large.
So let's get an idea of
down there and then we can fix all of that.
All right.
So it's that's a little bit of a little high up there.
And it shifted everything down as well.
So let's try a height of 10 pixels and let's shift it down a little bit using positioning.
So I will give it a top of let's try 10 pixels as well just see what that looks like.
As it happens that looks pretty perfect.
I like that a lot.
Wonderful.
So that's our menu bar complete in the next video then we'll go and look at the left part of the main
section here.
So we'll do our technology link up there and then we'll have a bit of content.
And as to image right there as well.
I hope you're still enjoying yourself and you're staying with me.
I'll see in the next video.